# salvettinet
Goals The following project aims at analysing a restricted corpus of XML files containing documentation from the Medici Archive Project, concerning notices sent by the Florentine resident in London to the Grand Duke of Tuscany between 1641 and 1642. These files, thanks to their encoding, make it possible to carry out quantitative examinations of the places, characters and topics that appear in this documentation. The proposed analysis has been divided into two macro-phases: 1. The user will be provided with a restricted sample of XML to be inserted into the algorithm and from which the names of the characters present, the places and the topics will be extrapolated for each news item in the document. Using the extracted characters a social network is constructed, so as to illustrate how they are connected to each other within the document. The network is then subjected to a series of analyses, while the topics and places become the protagonists of very elementary quantitative analyses. 2. In the second phase the user is provided with two XLSX files, which have been generated by the internal platform of the Euronews Project, in which all the characters of the documents between 1641 and 1642 are present. These, in a first file, are related to each other according to the number of times a given character appears with another, while in the second file, the characters are related to topics, showing us how many times a given character is found within the entire corpus in news marked by a given topic. The first file allows us to generate a social network based on the interactions that these characters have with each other, accompanied by a series of inherent analyses, while the second file allows us to make simple quantitative analyses on the relationship between the protagonists of the documents and topics.
